All right.
So we're going to dive into the code here and have decided to take these for transition properties and
break them into two separate videos just so that you don't get bored.
Hopefully So the first two that we're going to take a look at are duration and property.
So let's start off with transition duration which essentially says how long the transition should take
how long it should last.
So the syntax is pretty straightforward.
Transition Dasch duration and then a time one second or a decimal half of a second and you can also
pass in multiple values separated by commas.
We'll come back to that after we take a look at the next property which is called Transition property.
So we'll get to that in a moment.
But first let's demo these first two.
So I have a code pen open I'm calling it transition playground all that we have so far are two boxes
one called boring and one called animated.
But right now they both do the exact same thing.
There let's see they're purple they've got white text centerline that's pretty much all that matters.
There's a border radius and then as we hover the background changes and they double in size.
So you can see I hover turn red and they double in size.
Both of them do the exact same thing.
Nothing different.
What we're going to do is use transition duration to make this one take a little bit longer.
We'll start off with one second.
So it has a class of animated.
So I'm just going to target that class that animated and then all we have to do is transition duration
one as if we want one second.
So the first one is unchanged but the second one now takes a second and you'll notice that it's applying
to both things that are changing both properties.
So the background takes a second turn red it's not immediate like it is here.
And the scale takes a second as well.
So we could also do something faster of course 0.3 seconds.
So that one still is instant.
But this one takes a little bit longer.
And even though it's only point three seconds it still feels very very different than this one here.
So you can see I mean I'm not saying this is a Curdy interface but you can see the difference that these
tiny changes can make just in the timing as to how something actually feels to a user.
OK I'm moving on now to our second property which is transition Dasch property.
And this allows us to specify which of the properties that are being changed.
Do we actually want to transition.
So we may not want everything to take a second or five seconds or whatever it is.
So in this case we have two things that are being transitioned the background and the transform.
And that's because by default everything is transition.
So if I added something else in here let's say add opacity and make opacity go to 0.5.
So as a hover here I guess it's kind of hard to tell because we're also doing color but the opacity
is being animated.
It takes a second it's not happening immediately.
So if I actually slow that down I will be able to notice that.
Let's do two seconds so you can see that it's becoming clearer over those two seconds.
So that brings us back to transition property.
This allows us to specify exactly which properties should be transitioned and anything that we leave
out will not be transitioned.
So in this case I could say only background or only opacity or only transform I could specify multiple
color and opacity and I could keep going with commis.
There's not a limit there or it could say all which is what's happening currently even that we're not
explicitly stating that.
So let's try it.
Now let's go up here and all we do is add transition Dasch property and let's say we only want the color
the background to animate.
So I can say background or background color.
Technically it's better to be more specific as we go.
So only background color should animate this one still the same of course because we're not doing anything
to it.
But this one you can see that the opacity and the scale are triggered immediately.
And the color takes a bit but because that opacity is there the color is changing right away.
But that's actually the opacity So it's kind of confusing.
It might be clearer if I comment that out.
Now you can see that OK.
The scale is happening immediately but the background color is taking a second.
So the same thing applies to transform.
So it's actually change this up a bit and add in a rotation as well.
So we'll rotate it 45 degrees.
And remember we have to do these on the same line because if I try and do transform rotate as a second
line it will actually overwrite the scale and it will only rotate.
So if I want to have multiple transforms I need them to be together.
But the problem with that and what I'll show you here first here's what happens.
Currently only the background color is being animated but if I go back here and I change this to be
transform just like that.
You'll notice that both things are now being transitioned.
So I can't actually be specific here and say I only want to transition the scale or the rotation.
I can only say the generic transform which is scale and rotate so you cannot specify that which is kind
of unfortunate.
So we have one property being transitioned which is transform.
It just happens that transform has two components.
So you get rid of that.
Simplify it again.
And now I'm going to return back to this thing that I mentioned where we could have a comma separated
set of durations along with a comma separated set of properties.
So I'll add in one more property this time let's also do border radius and let's have it at 20.
Let's make it 50 which should give us a circle.
There you go.
OK so it's becoming a circle here.
So what I want to show is that we can animate let's do background color
comma border radius.
So we're saying take two seconds to transition transition background and border radius.
But don't worry about our transform.
You'll notice the transform happens immediately.
It scales doubles in size.
But then the border radius turning it into a circle and the background color.
Take two seconds.
It's kind of cool looking actually.
So that brings us to what I just brought up which is we can also pass in two different durations so
I could ask the background color to take five seconds and the border radius to take one second.
So the order does matter it's the order we established above.
But now you'll see that the background takes a lot longer to animate it's still going but the border
radius finished up pretty quickly.
So the order that things happen in is that the scale is immediate because there's no transition defined.
It's left out and any other things that we would assign here if we changed the font or the text color
font.
Not really eatable But let's say we changed the color of the text or the font size anything else that
happens in here.
It's not going to be transitioned it's going to be immediate Just like the scale is but the background
will take five seconds for the radius one second as you can see there.
All right.
So that covers those two properties transition property and transition duration.
We have two more to talk about in the next video and then we'll also see a shorthand way to put them
all together into a single line.
So that's coming up.